
Redshift
========

Redshift adjusts the color temperature of your screen according to
your surroundings. This may help your eyes hurt less if you are
working in front of the screen at night.

Download
--------

Latest release is redshift 1.2 published on 2010-02-12. There are also
packages available for some distributions:

 * Ubuntu: Packages for Ubuntu Karmic.
 * Gentoo: Redshift is in the Sunrise overlay.

What is it?
-----------

The program uses an X server extension to adjust the color
temperature. This is done by setting appropriate gamma ramps. If you
have configured your own gamma ramps they will be overwritten but in
that case you probably care too much about color accuracy to use this
program anyway. Your graphics driver and X server needs to either
support at least RANDR version 1.3 or the VidMode extension.

The color temperature is set according to the position of the sun. A
different color temperature is set during night and daytime. During
twilight and early morning, the color temperature transitions smoothly
from night to daytime temperature to allow your eyes to slowly
adapt. At night the color temperature should be set to match the lamps in your
room. This is typically a low temperature at around 3000K--4000K
(default is 3700K). During the day, the color temperature should match
the light from outside, typically around 5500K--6500K (default is
5500K). The light has a higher temperature on an overcast day.

How does it work?
-----------------

Redshift will continously update the color temperature at regular
intervals. One shot mode can be selected if you only want to do one
adjustment. The color adjustments done by Redshift can be temporarily
toggled on and off by sending it the USR1 signal:

 $ killall -USR1 redshift

The command line options are explained in the following paragraphs. The
only required parameter is your current location, all other options
have reasonable defaults.

  -h		Display help message.
  -v		Verbose output.

  -g R:G:B	Additional gamma correction to apply. Can also be
     		specified as -g GAMMA to set all channels to the same
     		gamma value.
  -l LAT:LON	Your current location in latitudes and longitudes.
  -m METHOD	Method to use to set color temperature (randr or
     		vidmode). Default is randr. In some cases one of the
     		methods will not work. In that case you may be able to
     		use the other method.
  -o		One shot mode. Do not continously adjust color
     		temperature.
  -r		Disable temperature transition. By default the program
     		will make a smooth transition to the desired color
     		temperature when the program is started and stopped.
  -s SCREEN	X screen to apply adjustments to.
  -t DAY:NIGHT	Color temperature to set at daytime/night.

Example (location is Copenhagen, Denmark):

 $ redshift -l 55.7:12.6 -t 5700:3600 -g 0.8 -m vidmode -v

Status icon
-----------

Start the program gtk-redshift instead of redshift, with the same
arguments as you would pass to redshift. This will create an icon for
Redshift in the system tray. The icon will allow you to toggle
Redshift on and off. Thanks goes to the Tango Desktop Project for the
icon. gtk-redshift requires at least Python 2.4 and PyGTK 2.12.
